Add a basic inbox tutorial (#1158)
slackhq/circuit: docs/tutorial.md

      ) : CircuitUiState
    }
    ```

=== "Email.kt"
    ```kotlin
    @Immutable
    data class Email(
      val id: String,
      val subject: String,
      val body: String,
      val sender: String,
      val timestamp: String,
      val recipients: List<String>,
    )
    ```

See the [states and events](states-and-events.md) guide for more information.

## Create your UI

Next, let's define a `Ui` for our `InboxScreen`. A `Ui` is a simple composable function that takes `State` and `Modifier` parameters. It's responsible for rendering the state. You should write this like a standard composable. In this case, we'll use a `LazyColumn` to render a list of emails.

// TODO side by side screenshot?

=== "Inbox"
    ```kotlin
    @Composable
    fun Inbox(state: InboxScreen.State, modifier: Modifier = Modifier) {
      LazyColumn(modifier = modifier) {
        items(state.emails.size) { index ->
          EmailItem(state.emails[index])
        }
      }
    }
    
    // Write one or use EmailItem from ui.kt
    @Composable
    private fun EmailItem(email: Email, modifier: Modifier = Modifier) {
      // ...
    }
    ```

## Implement your presenter

> Next, let's define a `Presenter` for our `InboxScreen`. Circuit presenters are responsible for computing and emitting state.

Reviewer: Here (or perhaps the note below) is a good place to explain how using the Compose engine allows updates to the state to re-flow to the UI. I think that's an easy detail to miss here - especially with the source being static in the tutorial.

Author: [ce77205](https://github.com/slackhq/circuit/pull/1158/commits/ce77205357576e535cfc21589b9c7f5ca7a4d775)

          return when (screen) {
            InboxScreen -> return InboxPresenter(navigator, emailRepository)
            else -> null
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "Circuit instance"
    ```kotlin
    val circuit: Circuit =
      Circuit.Builder()
        .addPresenterFactory(InboxPresenter.Factory(emailRepository))
        .addUi<InboxScreen, InboxScreen.State> { state, modifier -> Inbox(state, modifier) }
        .addPresenterFactory(DetailPresenter.Factory(emailRepository))
        .addUi<DetailScreen, DetailScreen.State> { state, modifier -> EmailDetail(state, modifier) }
        .build()
    ```

Now that we have a `Navigator` in our inbox presenter, we can use it to navigate to the detail screen. First, we need to explore how events work in Circuit.

## Events

So far, we've only covered _state_. State is produced by the presenter and consumed by the UI. That's only half of the UDF picture though! Events are the opposite: they're produced by the UI and consumed by the presenter. Events are how you can trigger actions in your app, such as navigation. _This completes the circuit._

> Events in Circuit are a little unconventional in Circuit doesn't actually provide first-party infrastructure for pipelining events from the UI to presenters. Instead, we use an _event sink property_ pattern, where states contain a trailing `eventSink` function that accepts events and can be emitted to by the UI.

Reviewer: First sentence here is unclear

Author: [c44b252](https://github.com/slackhq/circuit/pull/1158/commits/c44b25248412c7e266867188b84c4b9ee1cebba9)

    - Also set up [Parcelize](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/parcelize)
- [Multiplatform](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/kotlin-multiplatform-dev/compose-multiplatform-getting-started.html)

Next, add the `circuit-foundation` dependency. This includes all the core Circuit artifacts.

=== "build.gradle.kts"
    ```kotlin
    dependencies {
      implementation("com.slack.circuit:circuit-foundation:<version>")
    }
    ```

See [setup docs](setup.md) for more information.

## Create a `Screen`

The primary entry points in Circuit are `Screen`s. These are the navigational building blocks of your app. A `Screen` is a simple data class or data object that represents a unique location in your app. For example, a `Screen` could represent an inbox list, an email detail, or a settings screen.

Let's start with a simple `Screen` that represents an inbox list:

=== "Android"
    ```kotlin
    @Parcelize
    data object InboxScreen : Screen
    ```

=== "Multiplatform"
    ```kotlin
    data object InboxScreen : Screen
    ```

!!! note
    `Screen` is `Parcelable` on Android. You should use the Parcelize plugin to annotate your screens with `@Parcelize`.

## Design your state

> Next, let's define some state for our `InboxScreen`. Circuit uses unidirectional data flow (UDF) to ensure strong separation between presentation logic and UI. States should [_stable_ or _immutable_](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/compose/performance/stability), and directly renderable by your UIs. As such, you should design them to be as simple as possible.

Reviewer 2: "States should _be_ Stable..."

Author: English is hard, I blame the English

[9354b71](https://github.com/slackhq/circuit/pull/1158/commits/9354b71abc06054290d5c070199e3302187c1efa)

> Conventionally, this is written as a nested `State` class inside your `Screen` and _must_ extend `CircuitUiState`.

Reviewer 2: Is it? 😅 . Personally I think they're an implementation detail of the presenter + UI.

Author: We usually write this structure

```kotlin
data object HomeScreen : Screen {
  data class State(...) : CircuitUiState
  sealed interface Event : CircuitUiEvent { ... }
}
```

Is that what you're referring to? We could add a bit here that state/events could also be their own top-level declarations if they're nontrivial

=== "InboxScreen.kt"
    ```kotlin
    data object InboxScreen : Screen {
      data class State(
        val emails: List<Email>
      ) : CircuitUiState
    }
    ```

=== "Email.kt"
    ```kotlin
    @Immutable
    data class Email(
      val id: String,
      val subject: String,
      val body: String,
      val sender: String,
      val timestamp: String,
      val recipients: List<String>,
    )
    ```

See the [states and events](states-and-events.md) guide for more information.

## Create your UI

Next, let's define a `Ui` for our `InboxScreen`. A `Ui` is a simple composable function that takes `State` and `Modifier` parameters. It's responsible for rendering the state. You should write this like a standard composable. In this case, we'll use a `LazyColumn` to render a list of emails.

// TODO side by side screenshot?

=== "Inbox"
    ```kotlin
    @Composable
    fun Inbox(state: InboxScreen.State, modifier: Modifier = Modifier) {
      LazyColumn(modifier = modifier) {

>         items(state.emails.size) { index ->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        items(state.emails) { email ->
```

Author: Ah! I missed that there was an extension for this

Author: [ccbfa6a](https://github.com/slackhq/circuit/pull/1158/commits/ccbfa6a85529212790f26adb9829e599d65f2691)

>           EmailItem(state.emails[index])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          EmailItem(email)
```

Author: [ccbfa6a](https://github.com/slackhq/circuit/pull/1158/commits/ccbfa6a85529212790f26adb9829e599d65f2691)

      }
    }
    ```

=== "DetailContent"
    ```kotlin
    @Composable
    fun EmailDetail(state: DetailScreen.State, modifier: Modifier = Modifier) {
      Column(modifier = modifier) {
        IconButton(onClick = { state.eventSink(DetailScreen.Event.BackClicked) }) {
          Icon(Icons.Default.ArrowBack, contentDescription = "Back")
        }
        // Remaining detail UI...
      }
    }
    ```

=== "DetailPresenter"
    ```kotlin
    class DetailPresenter(
      private val screen: DetailScreen,
      private val navigator: Navigator,
      private val emailRepository: EmailRepository,
    ) : Presenter<DetailScreen.State> {
      @Composable
      override fun present(): DetailScreen.State {
        val email = emailRepository.getEmail(screen.emailId)
        return DetailScreen.State(email) { event ->
          when (event) {
            DetailScreen.Event.BackClicked -> navigator.pop()
          }
        }
      }
      // ...
    }
    ```

On Android, `NavigableCircuitContent` automatically hooks into `BackHandler` to automatically pop on system back presses. On Desktop, it's recommended to wire the ESC key.

## Conclusion

> This is just a brief introduction to Circuit. For more information see various docs on the site, samples in the repo, the [API reference](../api/0.x/index.html), and check out other Circuit tools like circuit-retained, CircuitX, factory code gen, overlays, testing, multiplatform, and more.

Reviewer 2: Add links to all of the different tools.

Author: [7517fe6](https://github.com/slackhq/circuit/pull/1158/commits/7517fe63109e3a657c5fdf184cf10bbe1a59730d)

[44f7b9f](https://github.com/slackhq/circuit/pull/1158/commits/44f7b9fe83f651a807cf0e0bf76fd0d722a57985)

The primary entry points in Circuit are `Screen`s ([docs](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/circuit-runtime-screen/com.slack.circuit.runtime.screen/-screen/index.html)). These are the navigational building blocks of your app. A `Screen` is a simple data class or data object that represents a unique location in your app. For example, a `Screen` could represent an inbox list, an email detail, or a settings screen.

Let's start with a simple `Screen` that represents an inbox list:

=== "Android"
    ```kotlin
    @Parcelize
    data object InboxScreen : Screen
    ```

=== "Multiplatform"
    ```kotlin
    data object InboxScreen : Screen
    ```

!!! tip
    `Screen` is `Parcelable` on Android. You should use the Parcelize plugin to annotate your screens with `@Parcelize`.

## Design your state

Next, let's define some state for our `InboxScreen`. Circuit uses unidirectional data flow (UDF) to ensure strong separation between presentation logic and UI. States should be [_stable_ or _immutable_](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/compose/performance/stability), and directly renderable by your UIs. As such, you should design them to be as simple as possible.

> Conventionally, this is written as a nested `State` class inside your `Screen` and _must_ extend `CircuitUiState` ([docs](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/circuit-runtime/com.slack.circuit.runtime/-circuit-ui-state/index.html)).

Author: Yeah let's save that for an advanced topic. Def think there's room for a part 2/"electives" tutorial after this can can dive into those

=== "InboxScreen"
    ```kotlin title="InboxScreen.kt" hl_lines="2-4"
    data object InboxScreen : Screen {
      data class State(
        val emails: List<Email>
      ) : CircuitUiState
    }
    ```

=== "Email"
    ```kotlin title="Email.kt"
    @Immutable
    data class Email(
      val id: String,
      val subject: String,
      val body: String,
      val sender: String,
      val timestamp: String,
      val recipients: List<String>,
    )
    ```

See the [states and events](states-and-events.md) guide for more information.

## Create your UI

Next, let's define a `Ui` for our `InboxScreen`. A `Ui` is a simple composable function that takes `State` and `Modifier` parameters. It's responsible for rendering the state. You should write this like a standard composable. In this case, we'll use a `LazyColumn` to render a list of emails.

> // TODO side by side screenshot?

Reviewer 3: We could add a preview and use a screenshot from that, good case to demo using previews for this kind of development.

Author: yeah I've got a couple screenshots I think I'm gonna stick in the beginning of the relevant sections, and maybe a gif, and start with that for now

          CircuitCompositionLocals(circuit) {
            // ...
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "JS"
    ```kotlin title="main.kt"
    fun main() {
      val circuit = Circuit.Builder()
        // ...
        .build()

      onWasmReady {
        Window("Inbox") {
          CircuitCompositionLocals(circuit) {
            // ...
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

## `CircuitContent`

`CircuitContent` ([docs](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/circuit-foundation/com.slack.circuit.foundation/-circuit-content.html)) is a simple composable that takes a `Screen` and renders it.

```kotlin title="CircuitContent"
CircuitCompositionLocals(circuit) {
  CircuitContent(InboxScreen)
}
```

Under the hood, this instantiates the corresponding `Presenter` and `Ui` from the local `Circuit` instance and connects them together. All you need to do is pass in the `Screen` you want to render!

This is the most basic way to render a `Screen`. These can be top-level UIs or nested within other UIs. You can even have multiple `CircuitContent` instances in the same composition.

## Adding navigation to our app

> An architecture isn't complete without navigation. Circuit provides a simple navigation API that's focused around a simple `BackStack` ([docs](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/backstack/com.slack.circuit.backstack/-back-stack/index.html)) that is navigated via a `Navigator` interface ([docs]()). In most cases, you can use the built-in `SaveableBackStack` implementation ([docs](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/backstack/com.slack.circuit.backstack/-saveable-back-stack/index.html)), which is saved and restored in accordance with whatever the platform's `rememberSaveable` implementation is.

Reviewer 3: nit: Think this should read "An app isn't complete without navigation". 
```suggestion
An app isn't complete without navigation. Circuit provides a simple navigation API that's focused around a simple `BackStack` ([docs](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/backstack/com.slack.circuit.backstack/-back-stack/index.html)) that is navigated via a `Navigator` interface ([docs]()). In most cases, you can use the built-in `SaveableBackStack` implementation ([docs](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/backstack/com.slack.circuit.backstack/-saveable-back-stack/index.html)), which is saved and restored in accordance with whatever the platform's `rememberSaveable` implementation is.
```

Author: camera app may disagree ;P. Maybe "app architecture" for both?

```kotlin title="Creating a backstack and navigator"
val backStack = rememberSaveableBackStack { 
  // Push your root screen
  push(InboxScreen)
}
val navigator = rememberCircuitNavigator(backStack) {
  // Do something when the root screen is popped, usually exiting the app
}
```

Once you have these two components created, you can pass them to an advanced version of `CircuitContent` that supports navigation called `NavigableCircuitContent` ([docs](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/circuit-foundation/com.slack.circuit.foundation/-navigable-circuit-content.html)).

```kotlin title="NavigableCircuitContent"
NavigableCircuitContent(navigator = navigator, backstack = backStack)
```

> This composable will automatically manage the backstack and navigation for you, essentially rendering the "top" of the back stack as your _navigator_ navigates it. This also handles transitions between screens ([`NavDecoration`](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/backstack/com.slack.circuit.backstack/-nav-decoration/index.html)) and fallback behavior with unavailable routes.

Reviewer 3: Might be a bit easier to find the fallback handling using the `unavailableRoute` parameter name.
```suggestion
This composable will automatically manage the backstack and navigation for you, essentially rendering the "top" of the back stack as your _navigator_ navigates it. This also handles transitions between screens ([`NavDecoration`](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/backstack/com.slack.circuit.backstack/-nav-decoration/index.html)) and fallback behavior with `unavailableRoute`.
```

Author: Good point. Let me actually make it a link to the Circuit builder prop

          return when (screen) {
            InboxScreen -> return InboxPresenter(navigator, emailRepository)
            else -> null
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

=== "Circuit instance"
    ```kotlin hl_lines="3-4"
    val circuit: Circuit =
      Circuit.Builder()
        .addPresenterFactory(InboxPresenter.Factory(emailRepository))
        .addUi<InboxScreen, InboxScreen.State> { state, modifier -> Inbox(state, modifier) }
        .addPresenterFactory(DetailPresenter.Factory(emailRepository))
        .addUi<DetailScreen, DetailScreen.State> { state, modifier -> EmailDetail(state, modifier) }
        .build()
    ```

Now that we have a `Navigator` in our inbox presenter, we can use it to navigate to the detail screen. First, we need to explore how events work in Circuit.

## Events

So far, we've covered _state_. State is produced by the presenter and consumed by the UI. That's only half of the UDF picture though! _Events_ are the inverse: they're produced by the UI and consumed by the presenter. Events are how you can trigger actions in your app, such as navigation. _This completes the circuit._

> Events in Circuit are a little unconventional in that Circuit doesn't provide structured APIs for pipelining events from the UI to presenters. Instead, we use an _event sink property_ pattern, where states contain a trailing `eventSink` function that accepts events and can be emitted to by the UI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Events in Circuit are a little unconventional in that Circuit doesn't provide structured APIs for pipelining events from the UI to presenters. Instead, we use an _event sink property_ pattern, where states contain a trailing `eventSink` function that receives events emitted from the UI.
```

This provides many benefits, see the [events](states-and-events.md) guide for more information.

Let's add an event to our inbox screen for when the user clicks on an email.

Events must implement `CircuitUiEvent` ([docs](https://slackhq.github.io/circuit/api/0.x/circuit-runtime/com.slack.circuit.runtime/-circuit-ui-event/index.html)) and are usually modeled as a `sealed interface` hierarchy, where each subtype is a different event type.

```kotlin title="InboxScreen.kt" hl_lines="4 6-8"
data object InboxScreen : Screen {
  data class State(
    val emails: List<Email>,
    val eventSink: (Event) -> Unit
  ) : CircuitUiState
  sealed class Event : CircuitUiEvent {
    data class EmailClicked(val emailId: String) : Event()
  }
}
```

Now that we have an event, let's emit it from our UI.

```kotlin title="InboxScreen.kt" hl_lines="6-8 15"
@Composable
fun Inbox(state: InboxScreen.State, modifier: Modifier = Modifier) {
  Scaffold(modifier = modifier, topBar = { TopAppBar(title = { Text("Inbox") }) }) { innerPadding ->
    LazyColumn(modifier = Modifier.padding(innerPadding)) {
      items(state.emails) { email ->

>         EmailItem(email) {
>           state.eventSink(InboxScreen.Event.EmailClicked(email.id))
>         }

Reviewer 3: nit: Lets name the `onClick` to line up with compose expectations that a trailing lambda is a composable function. 
```suggestion
        EmailItem(
          email = email,
          onClick = { state.eventSink(InboxScreen.Event.EmailClicked(email.id)) },
        )
```

Author: Does compose expect this for non-composable function/classes? For example [BackHandler](https://developer.android.com/reference/kotlin/androidx/activity/compose/package-summary#BackHandler(kotlin.Boolean,kotlin.Function0))

Reviewer 3: Just for ui elements/layouts components, [docs](https://github.com/androidx/androidx/blob/androidx-main/compose/docs/compose-component-api-guidelines.md#parameters-order)
